<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>Re: [OMPI devel] Preparations for moving the btl's</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<FONT FACE="Calibri, Verdana, Helvetica, Arial"><SPAN STYLE='font-size:11pt'><BR>
<BR>
<BR>
On 12/4/08 9:05 AM, &quot;Jeff Squyres&quot; &lt;<a href="jsquyres@cisco.com">jsquyres@cisco.com</a>&gt; wrote:<BR>
<BR>
</SPAN></FONT><BLOCKQUOTE><FONT FACE="Calibri, Verdana, Helvetica, Arial"><SPAN STYLE='font-size:11pt'>After reflecting on this a bit, there's two more things I should have <BR>
mentioned:<BR>
<BR>
1. I think that moving the BTL's out into their own layer (or <BR>
whatever) should be a separate effort than re-introducing the RSL (or <BR>
something like it). &nbsp;To me, they're two different things and should be <BR>
addressed separately.<BR>
<BR>
&gt;&gt; Yes, I agree, and this is the plan. &nbsp;However, I think that some of these issues will<BR>
&gt;&gt; arrise in the 4th proposed stage. &nbsp;Specifically, indexing the btl&#8217;s will become an<BR>
&gt;&gt; issue at the pml level. &nbsp;Right now we do what is easiest and just use an indexing<BR>
&gt;&gt; already provided by orte, but this really should be driven by the layer using them,<BR>
&gt;&gt; MPI in this case.<BR>
<BR>
2. With both the BTLs and some incarnation of RSL coming into the code <BR>
base, we need to decide exactly what our policies will be on who can <BR>
drive interface changes and what our responsibilities will be to <BR>
external code bases that use the BTL and/or RSL interfaces.<BR>
<BR>
FYI: Re-introducing the some form of the RSL is already on either the <BR>
December or January ORTE meeting agenda (I don't remember which <BR>
offhand).<BR>
<BR>
&gt;&gt; yes. &nbsp;&nbsp;I know that several people have been thinking about this. &nbsp;Any date for the<BR>
&gt;&gt; January meeting yet ? &nbsp;It turns out that I will be out of the country for 3 weeks from <BR>
&gt;&gt; mid Jan until just before the Feb. MPI Forum meeting.<BR>
<BR>
Rich<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
On Dec 4, 2008, at 8:13 AM, Jeff Squyres wrote:<BR>
<BR>
&gt; I think you got it right. &nbsp;And I think we're pretty good in terms of <BR>
&gt; BTL usage of ORTE and OPAL (to include the new &quot;notifier&quot; service <BR>
&gt; that Ralph put in recently -- what the FTB will likely eventually <BR>
&gt; use, I think...?); those interfaces and abstraction barriers are <BR>
&gt; technologically enforced. &nbsp;If you break the abstractions, the linker <BR>
&gt; will swiftly and unmercifully punish you. &nbsp;(this was exactly [one <BR>
&gt; of] the rationale that we used for splitting the code base into <BR>
&gt; OPAL, ORTE, and OMPI several years ago)<BR>
&gt;<BR>
&gt; Greg has already noted on the wiki a few constants used in the BTL's <BR>
&gt; that have an OMPI_ prefix that aren't really OMPI values (e.g., <BR>
&gt; OMPI_ENABLE_HETEROGENEOUS_SUPPORT). &nbsp;These come from configure <BR>
&gt; (i.e., opal/include/opal_config.h) and were not renamed back when we <BR>
&gt; split the code base into OPAL, ORTE, and OMPI. &nbsp;I don't think we had <BR>
&gt; a strong reason for not renaming them -- most could probably be <BR>
&gt; renamed to OPAL_* -- we just didn't do it then. &nbsp;Perhaps they can be <BR>
&gt; changed during the BTL extraction process (I noted this on the wiki).<BR>
&gt;<BR>
&gt;<BR>
&gt;<BR>
&gt; On Dec 3, 2008, at 9:43 PM, Richard Graham wrote:<BR>
&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt; BTW,<BR>
&gt;&gt; &nbsp;I was guessing FTB is Fault Tolerant Backbone, but if not, can <BR>
&gt;&gt; someone tell me what it is ? &nbsp;If it is not the later, what I just <BR>
&gt;&gt; wrote about it makes no sense.<BR>
&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt; Rich<BR>
&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt; On 12/3/08 9:34 PM, &quot;Richard Graham&quot; &lt;<a href="rlgraham@ornl.gov">rlgraham@ornl.gov</a>&gt; wrote:<BR>
&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; The goal is to use the btl&#8217;s outside of the context of MPI, which <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; was what was in mind from the day the ompi work started over five <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; years ago, but with no other use at the time, things grew up <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; intermingled &#8211; no surprise at all. &nbsp;What we are attempting to do <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; is to untangle the existing dependencies, and make a much cleaner <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; distinction between how/what data is passed between layers.<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; I expect this will involve some sort of well defined interface <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; between the btl&#8217;s and orte, and I don&#8217;t know if this will also <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; require something like this between the btl&#8217;s and the pml &#8211; I <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; think that interface is rigidly enforced, but am not sure.<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; I expect that explicit calls to FTB in the btl layer would have to <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; be componentized, especially in the context of what is developing <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; in the FT working group of the MPI Forum. &nbsp;Not that FTB is bad in <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; any way, just that it is one of many monitors.<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; We will need to talk about this on a case by case basis, and <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; decide how to proceed. &nbsp;If anyone wants to help, please do.<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; Rich<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; On 12/3/08 3:02 PM, &quot;Ralph Castain&quot; &lt;<a href="rhc@lanl.gov">rhc@lanl.gov</a>&gt; wrote:<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I managed to execute the modex-less changes pretty much without<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; introducing additional ORTE dependencies into the BTL's, though <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; there<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; may be some additions as we look a the other BTLs that I didn't<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; address. So hopefully that won't contribute too much to the issue <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; here.<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; At the moment, I don't think it matters where notifier sits - it <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; might<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; be able to move to OPAL. Only catch will be if some notifier <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; component<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; requires communications. I'm thinking of FTB, for example, and <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; our own<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; local monitoring program that may require TCP messaging. We don't<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; currently have anything in OPAL that would support an OPAL level<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; messaging system, though perhaps that could be resolved.<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; We also have dependencies where the BTL's will call orte_ess to <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; find<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; out what node another proc is on, the node local rank of that proc,<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; etc. Those dependencies are likely to grow after the Dec meeting <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; (see<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; wiki for that agenda item), and definitely cannot be moved to OPAL.<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; However, note that Rich stated the BTL's were -not- moving to OPAL.<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; This begs the question: where -are- they going? Into their own <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; layer?<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Will that layer be somewhere in-between OMPI and ORTE (in which <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; case,<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; the ORTE dependencies are moot)?<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I note that the wiki page doesn't address any of these questions,<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; which is understandable if things are just getting underway. But it<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; does sound like this is going to take some thought to ensure we <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; don't<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; paint ourselves into a corner.<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Ralph<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Dec 3, 2008, at 12:10 PM, Jeff Squyres wrote:<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; FWIW, I see lots of notifier calls being added to the BTLs (and<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; elsewhere throughout the OMPI code base) over time...<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; On Dec 3, 2008, at 2:07 PM, Tim Mattox wrote:<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; The BTLs might have added calls to the notifier framework in <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; their<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; error paths.<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; The notifier framework is currently in the ORTE layer... not <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; sure<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; if we could<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; move it down to OPAL. &nbsp;Ralph, any thoughts on that?<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; On Wed, Dec 3, 2008 at 11:56 AM, Richard Graham &lt;<a href="rlgraham@ornl.gov">rlgraham@ornl.gov</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; wrote:<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; George told me about what he is doing, so no changes would be<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; committed<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; until George has his changes in.<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Are there other changes to the btl's that we should be aware <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; of ?<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; Rich<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; On 12/3/08 11:47 AM, &quot;George Bosilca&quot; &lt;<a href="bosilca@eecs.utk.edu">bosilca@eecs.utk.edu</a>&gt; <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; wrote:<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Terry,<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I'm involved [at some degree] in both efforts and I can <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; confirm<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; these<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; two efforts will not affect each other in any bad way.<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &nbsp;george.<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; On Dec 3, 2008, at 11:42 , Terry Dontje wrote:<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I don't have any *strong* objections. However, I know that <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Eugene<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; and George B have been working on some Fastpath code changes<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; that we<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; should make sure neither project obliterates the other.<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; --td<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Richard Graham wrote:<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Now that 1.3 will be released, we would like to go ahead <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; with the<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; plan to move the btl&#8217;s out of the MPI layer. Greg Koenig <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; who is<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; doing most of the work has started a wiki page with <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; details on<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; the<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; plans. Right now details are sketchy, as Greg is digging <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; through<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; the code, and has only hand written notes on data <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; structures that<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; need to be moved, include files that are not needed, etc. <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; The<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; page<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; is at:<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; _<a href="https://svn.open-mpi.org/trac/ompi/wiki/BTLExtraction_">https://svn.open-mpi.org/trac/ompi/wiki/BTLExtraction_</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; The first three steps basically only involve code motion, <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; moving<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; items such as ompi_list, and renaming them, moving where <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; the code<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; is actually located in the repository, and the like. For <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; these we<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; do not plan to put out a formal RFC, but comments are very<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; welcome,<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; and any hands that are willing to help with this are even <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; more<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; welcome.<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; The last phase where the btl&#8217;s are made dependent on OPAL, <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; and<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; supporting libraries such as mpools I expect will be <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; disruptive,<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; and will definitely require an RFC, and will also be a <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; longer<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; process.<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Please send comments,<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Rich<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; <BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; ------------------------------------------------------------------------<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; _______________________________________________<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; devel mailing list<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; <a href="devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; <a href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; _______________________________________________<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; devel mailing list<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; <a href="devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; <a href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; _______________________________________________<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; devel mailing list<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; <a href="devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; <a href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; _______________________________________________<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; devel mailing list<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; <a href="devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt; <a href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; --<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Tim Mattox, Ph.D. - <a href="http://homepage.mac.com/tmattox/">http://homepage.mac.com/tmattox/</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; <a href="tmattox@gmail.com">tmattox@gmail.com</a> || <a href="timattox@open-mpi.org">timattox@open-mpi.org</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; &nbsp;&nbsp;I'm a bright... <a href="http://www.the-brights.net/">http://www.the-brights.net/</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; _______________________________________________<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; devel mailing list<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; <a href="devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; <a href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; --<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Jeff Squyres<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; Cisco Systems<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; _______________________________________________<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; devel mailing list<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; <a href="devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; &gt; <a href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; _______________________________________________<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; devel mailing list<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; <a href="devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; <a href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt;<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; _______________________________________________<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; devel mailing list<BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; <a href="devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a><BR>
&gt;&gt;&gt; <a href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a><BR>
&gt;&gt; _______________________________________________<BR>
&gt;&gt; devel mailing list<BR>
&gt;&gt; <a href="devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a><BR>
&gt;&gt; <a href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a><BR>
&gt;<BR>
&gt;<BR>
&gt; --<BR>
&gt; Jeff Squyres<BR>
&gt; Cisco Systems<BR>
&gt;<BR>
&gt;<BR>
&gt; _______________________________________________<BR>
&gt; devel mailing list<BR>
&gt; <a href="devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a><BR>
&gt; <a href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a><BR>
<BR>
<BR>
--<BR>
Jeff Squyres<BR>
Cisco Systems<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
_______________________________________________<BR>
devel mailing list<BR>
<a href="devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a><BR>
<a href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a><BR>
<BR>
</SPAN></FONT></BLOCKQUOTE>
</BODY>
</HTML>


