<font face="Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif">Hello,<br>

<br>

I have been attempting to install OpenMPI with the Sun Fortran Compiler
that is packaged as a part of Sun Studio for x86 architectures for
about a year and a half now without success. Every time a new version
of Sun Studio and/or OpenMPI comes out, I have attempted the install
again with the hopes that whatever has been causing the problem will
have magically been fixed. However at this point, it appears that
whatever is causing the install problems is something unkown to your
development team ... so I figure it is time to report it.<br>

<br>

I am currently trying to install the Sun F90 compiler with
openmpi-1.2.6 on a 64-bit intel machine running Red Hat Linux
Enterprise 5. I have also tried this same install on a variety of
32-bit intel architectures with 2 other flavors of linux, and I get the
same errors. I have attached the install script that I use to install
OpenMPI for each of the FORTRAN packages that I use (OpenMPI installs
successfully for the 4 other FORTRAN packages in this install script).
I have also attached 2 sets of output streams with different error
messages. One of these output streams corresponds to the result that I
get when setting the C-compiler to gcc in the install script, and the
other corresponds to setting the C-compiler to the C-compiler that is
included with Sun Studio.<br>

<br>

Note also that I have not had any problems with getting the Sun
compilers (Fortran and C) installed with MPICH2, so I am confused as to
what may be the issue with OpenMPI. I prefer to use OpenMPI, so I would
like to figure this issue out.<br>

<br>

Thanks in advance,<br>

<br>

Rob</font><div id='u8CA71D7C32C3AB0-C0-118A' class='aol_ad_footer'><FONT style="color: black; font: normal 10pt ARIAL, SAN-SERIF;"><HR style="MARGIN-TOP: 10px">Get the <A title="http://www.mapquest.com/toolbar?NCID=mpqmap00030000000003" href="http://www.mapquest.com/toolbar?NCID=mpqmap00030000000003" target="_blank">MapQuest Toolbar</A>, Maps, Traffic, Directions & More!</FONT> </div>

