<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>FW: [mpi-21] Follow up on the MPI Forum meeting</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<FONT FACE="Verdana, Helvetica, Arial"><SPAN STYLE='font-size:12.0px'><BR>
------ Forwarded Message<BR>
<B>From: </B>Richard Graham &lt;rlgraham@ornl.gov&gt;<BR>
<B>Reply-To: </B>&lt;mpi-21@mpi-forum.org&gt;<BR>
<B>Date: </B>Fri, 16 Nov 2007 23:21:16 -0500<BR>
<B>To: </B>&lt;mpi-21@mpi-forum.org&gt;<BR>
<B>Conversation: </B>Follow up on the MPI Forum meeting<BR>
<B>Subject: </B>[mpi-21] Follow up on the MPI Forum meeting<BR>
<BR>
Here is a brief summary of the meeting held at SC07 in Reno.<BR>
<BR>
We decided to reconvene the MPI forum with the intent of producing the MPI<BR>
2.1, 2.2, and 3.0 documents (the actual number may end up being different).<BR>
<BR>
MPI 2.1, which is current is strictly a for clarification of the current 2.0<BR>
standard - no changes to the standard. &nbsp;A new combined document of the 2.0<BR>
standard has been prepared, and will be put out soon for review. &nbsp;There is<BR>
also an existing ballot on the MPI 2.1 web site, which is accessible from<BR>
the MPI forum web page (www.mpi-forum.org). &nbsp;People are strongly encouraged<BR>
to send additional item for consideration to this mailing list, and we these<BR>
will be added for discussion. &nbsp;We agreed that this clarification process<BR>
will be handled electronically. &nbsp;I will also be looking for volunteers to<BR>
take primary responsibility for reviewing each chapter of the 2.0 standard,<BR>
and collecting input from others for these chapters. &nbsp;I hope to send this<BR>
out in the next week or so. &nbsp;The goal is to complete the 2.1 process by<BR>
July, 2007.<BR>
<BR>
MPI 2.2 is intended to introduce &quot;small&quot; additions to the standard, with the<BR>
flavor of obvious errors/omissions in the 2.0 interface. &nbsp;This includes<BR>
items such as adding appropriate const declarations to interface parameters,<BR>
making it easier to send more than 2 GB, and the like. &nbsp;I am sure there will<BR>
be plenty of discussion on what constitutes &quot;a small changes. &nbsp;The goal is<BR>
to complete this process by Jan, 2008, and this will most likely be the<BR>
focus of our first face-to-face meeting. &nbsp;We already started to compile this<BR>
list in our meeting in Reno, so please continue to add to this list. &nbsp;At<BR>
this stage these items should be brought up on the mailing list, but I am<BR>
hoping to set up a bit more efficient process to make sure we capture all<BR>
the items of interest.<BR>
<BR>
MPI 3.0 (or what ever it is called) is where I expect most of the<BR>
discussions to take place, ad this is where we may make larger changes to<BR>
the standard to better support current and future applications. &nbsp;Some of the<BR>
items that have already been brought up, that I believe fall in the category<BR>
include items such as improved one-sided communications, better support for<BR>
Generalized Requests, Non-blocking Collectives, support for Fault-Tolerance,<BR>
sub-setting functionality, ... (this is not an exhaustive list, and does not<BR>
reflect priorities) &nbsp;The goal is to complete the 3.0 standard no later than<BR>
Jan, 2010, with a first round of approved changes (if we vote any in), but<BR>
Jan. 2008, so that implementations can start to change, if need be. &nbsp;There<BR>
will be time to start discussing items in our first face to face meeting.<BR>
<BR>
We also decided to stick with the current voting procedures:<BR>
&nbsp;&nbsp;- One vote per organization<BR>
&nbsp;&nbsp;- To vote, and organization must have been present in at least two of the<BR>
last three face-to-face meetings.<BR>
&nbsp;&nbsp;- Votes are taken twice, in two consecutive meetings, with a &quot;reading&quot; at<BR>
an earlier meeting. (This will make it possible for any new organizations to<BR>
be become members before any final vote takes place)<BR>
&nbsp;&nbsp;- Measures pass on simple majority.<BR>
&nbsp;&nbsp;- Only items consistent with the charter can be considered.<BR>
<BR>
We decided that the face-to-face meetings will take place in Chicago, every<BR>
eight weeks, with a telecon mid-way. &nbsp;The face to face meetings will start<BR>
around noon on Monday, and end around noon on Wed., and the telecons will be<BR>
up to four hours, as needed. &nbsp;We are working on securing a meeting location,<BR>
and reduced hotel rates, and I hope to have this information out next week<BR>
(the week of 11/19/2007), so people can start to make hotel reservations.<BR>
We have set the first two meeting dates:<BR>
&nbsp;&nbsp;Jan 14-16, 2008<BR>
&nbsp;&nbsp;March 10-12, 2008<BR>
To help in future planning I have penciled in dates for the rest of the year<BR>
&nbsp;&nbsp;May 5-7, 2008<BR>
&nbsp;&nbsp;June 30 - July 2, 2008<BR>
&nbsp;&nbsp;August 25-27, 2008 (though we should consider having this meeting in<BR>
Europe about a week later, in conjunction with the Euro PVM/MPI meeting)<BR>
&nbsp;&nbsp;October 20-22, 2008<BR>
and<BR>
&nbsp;&nbsp;December 15-17, 2008.<BR>
<BR>
Several of us are working to see if we can secure funding to help pay for<BR>
these meetings, and will let people know if we are able to do so. &nbsp;I we<BR>
can't, we will need to collect a fee for each meeting, to pay for the<BR>
meeting rooms, snacks, drinks, and any business costs that may need to be<BR>
incurred, such as photo-copying.<BR>
<BR>
Finally, please advertise this activity as widely as you can, as the more<BR>
input we get, the more likely we are to come improve on an already<BR>
successful endeavor. &nbsp;In particular, it is very important that we get our<BR>
user community and the vendor community to be actively involved in this<BR>
process. &nbsp;I am actively perusing the people I know in both these<BR>
communities, and would highly encourage others to do the same.<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
Looking forward to a fun process,<BR>
Rich<BR>
<BR>
&nbsp;<BR>
&nbsp;<BR>
&nbsp;<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
------ End of Forwarded Message<BR>
</SPAN></FONT>
</BODY>
</HTML>


