Thanks Brice,<br><br>I will do the PR for the various ompi branches from tomorrow<br><br>Cheers,<br><br>Gilles<br><br>Brice Goglin &lt;Brice.Goglin@inria.fr&gt; wrote:<br>
    Sorry, I didn't see this report before the pull request.<br>
    <br>
    I applied Gilles' "simple but arguable" fix to master and stable
    branches up to v1.9. It could be too imperfect if somebody ever
    changes to permissions of /devices/pci* but I guess that's not going
    to happen in practice. Finding the right device path and checking
    permissions inside hwloc looks more arguable to me.<br>
    Thanks!<br>
    <br>
    I am adding a filter to my email client to avoid missing
    hwloc-related things among OMPI mails.<br>
    <br>
    Brice<br>
    <br>
    <br>
    <br>
    <br>
    <div class="moz-cite-prefix">Le 28/09/2015 06:23, Gilles
      Gouaillardet a écrit :<br>
    </div>
    <blockquote cite="mid:5608C0C1.2060002@rist.or.jp" type="cite">
      <meta content="text/html; charset=windows-1252"
        http-equiv="Content-Type">
      Paul and Brice,<br>
      <br>
      the error message is displayed by libpciaccess when hwloc invokes
      pci_system_init<br>
      <br>
      on Solaris :<br>
      crw-------   1 root     sys      182, 253 Sep 28 10:55
      /devices/pci@0,0:reg<br>
      <br>
      from libpciaccess<br>
      <br>
         snprintf(nexus_path, sizeof(nexus_path), "/devices%s",
      nexus_name);<br>
          if ((fd = open(nexus_path, O_RDWR | O_CLOEXEC)) &gt;= 0) {<br>
      [...]<br>
          } else {<br>
              (void) fprintf(stderr, "Error opening %s: %s\n",<br>
                             nexus_path, strerror(errno));<br>
      [...]   <br>
          }<br>
      <br>
      i noted some TODO comments in the code to handle this.<br>
      since this piece of code is deep inside libpciaccess, i guess a
      fix is not trivial.<br>
      unless libpciaccess is modified (for example, do not fprintf if a
      given environment variable is set),<br>
      hwloc should "emulate" pieces of libpciaccess to get the devices
      path, check the permissions and<br>
      invoke pci_system_init only if everything is ok.<br>
      <br>
      <br>
      an other simpler (but arguable ...) option, is not to probe the
      PCI bus on Solaris unless root<br>
      i made PR #136 <a moz-do-not-send="true"
        class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
        href="https://github.com/open-mpi/hwloc/pull/136">https://github.com/open-mpi/hwloc/pull/136</a>
      to implement this<br>
      <br>
      Cheers,<br>
      <br>
      Gilles<br>
      <br>
      <div class="moz-cite-prefix">On 9/26/2015 9:24 AM, Paul Hargrove
        wrote:<br>
      </div>
      <blockquote
cite="mid:CAAvDA15cN8FyL83VjnPQ1kiiGj7oG56ReweahaGD7Jap5wTaKg@mail.gmail.com"
        type="cite">
        <div dir="ltr">FYI:
          <div><br>
          </div>
          <div>Things look fine today with last night's master tarball.</div>
          <div><br>
          </div>
          <div>I hope Brice has a way to eliminate the hwloc warning,
            since I am sure I am not the only one with scripts that will
            notice "Error" in the output.</div>
          <div><br>
          </div>
          <div>-Paul</div>
        </div>
        <div class="gmail_extra"><br>
          <div class="gmail_quote">On Wed, Sep 23, 2015 at 6:08 PM,
            Ralph Castain <span dir="ltr">&lt;<a moz-do-not-send="true"
                href="mailto:rhc@open-mpi.org" target="_blank">rhc@open-mpi.org</a>&gt;</span>
            wrote:<br>
            <blockquote class="gmail_quote" style="margin:0 0 0
              .8ex;border-left:1px #ccc solid;padding-left:1ex">
              <div style="word-wrap:break-word">Aha! Thanks - just what
                the doctor ordered!
                <div><br>
                </div>
                <div><br>
                  <div>
                    <blockquote type="cite">
                      <div>On Sep 23, 2015, at 5:45 PM, Gilles
                        Gouaillardet &lt;<a moz-do-not-send="true"
                          href="mailto:gilles@rist.or.jp"
                          target="_blank">gilles@rist.or.jp</a>&gt;
                        wrote:</div>
                      <br>
                      <div>
                        <div bgcolor="#FFFFFF" text="#000000"> Ralph,<br>
                          <br>
                          the root cause is<br>
                          getsockopt(..., SOL_SOCKET, SO_RCVTIMEO,...)<br>
                          fails with errno ENOPROTOOPT on solaris 11.2<br>
                          <br>
                          the attached patch is a proof of concept and
                          works for me :<br>
                          /* if ENOPROTOOPT, do not try to set and
                          restore SO_RCVTIMEO */<br>
                          <br>
                          Cheers,<br>
                          <br>
                          Gilles<br>
                          <br>
                          <div>On 9/21/2015 2:16 PM, Paul Hargrove
                            wrote:<br>
                          </div>
                          <blockquote type="cite">
                            <div dir="ltr">Ralph,<br>
                              <br>
                              Just as you say:<br>
                              The first 64s pause was before the hwloc
                              error message appeared.<br>
                              The second was after the second
                              server_setup_fork appears, and before
                              whatever line came after that.<br>
                              <br>
                              I don't know if stdio buffering my be
                              "distorting" the placement of the pause
                              relative to the lines of output.<br>
                              However, prior to your patch the entire
                              failed mpirun was around 1s.<br>
                              <br>
                              No allocation.
                              <div>No resource manager.<br>
                                Just a single workstation.<br>
                                <br>
                                -Paul</div>
                            </div>
                            <div class="gmail_extra"><br>
                              <div class="gmail_quote">On Sun, Sep 20,
                                2015 at 9:32 PM, Ralph Castain <span
                                  dir="ltr">&lt;<a
                                    moz-do-not-send="true"
                                    href="mailto:rhc@open-mpi.org"
                                    target="_blank"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:rhc@open-mpi.org">rhc@open-mpi.org</a></a>&gt;</span>
                                wrote:<br>
                                <blockquote class="gmail_quote"
                                  style="margin:0 0 0
                                  .8ex;border-left:1px #ccc
                                  solid;padding-left:1ex">
                                  <div style="word-wrap:break-word">??
                                    Just so this old fossilized brain
                                    gets this right: you are saying
                                    there was a 64s pause before the
                                    hwloc error appeared, and then
                                    another 64s pause after the second
                                    server_setup_fork message appeared?
                                    <div><br>
                                    </div>
                                    <div>If that’s true, then I’m
                                      chasing the wrong problem - it
                                      sounds like something is messed up
                                      in the mpirun startup. Did you
                                      have more than one node in the
                                      allocation by chance? I’m
                                      wondering if we are getting held
                                      up by something in the daemon
                                      launch/callback area.</div>
                                    <div><br>
                                    </div>
                                    <div><br>
                                    </div>
                                    <div><br>
                                      <div>
                                        <blockquote type="cite">
                                          <div>
                                            <div>
                                              <div>On Sep 20, 2015, at
                                                4:08 PM, Paul Hargrove
                                                &lt;<a
                                                  moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:phhargrove@lbl.gov"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:phhargrove@lbl.gov">phhargrove@lbl.gov</a></a>&gt;


                                                wrote:</div>
                                              <br>
                                            </div>
                                          </div>
                                          <div>
                                            <div>
                                              <div>
                                                <div dir="ltr">Ralph,
                                                  <div><br>
                                                  </div>
                                                  <div>Still failing
                                                    with that patch, but
                                                    with the addition of
                                                    a fairly long pause
                                                    (64s) before the
                                                    first error message
                                                    appears, and again
                                                    after the second
                                                    "server setup_fork"
                                                    (64s again)</div>
                                                  <div><br>
                                                  </div>
                                                  <div>New output is
                                                    attached.</div>
                                                  <div><br>
                                                  </div>
                                                  <div>-Paul</div>
                                                </div>
                                                <div class="gmail_extra"><br>
                                                  <div
                                                    class="gmail_quote">On

                                                    Sun, Sep 20, 2015 at
                                                    2:15 PM, Ralph
                                                    Castain <span
                                                      dir="ltr">&lt;<a
                                                        moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:rhc@open-mpi.org"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:rhc@open-mpi.org">rhc@open-mpi.org</a></a>&gt;</span>
                                                    wrote:<br>
                                                    <blockquote
                                                      class="gmail_quote"
                                                      style="margin:0 0
                                                      0
                                                      .8ex;border-left:1px
                                                      #ccc
                                                      solid;padding-left:1ex">
                                                      <div
                                                        style="word-wrap:break-word">Argh

                                                        - found a typo
                                                        in the output
                                                        line. Could you
                                                        please try the
                                                        attached patch
                                                        and do it again?
                                                        This might fix
                                                        it, but if not
                                                        it will provide
                                                        me with some
                                                        idea of the
                                                        returned error.
                                                        <div><br>
                                                        </div>
                                                        <div>Thanks</div>
                                                        <span><font
                                                          color="#888888">
                                                          <div>Ralph</div>
                                                          </font></span></div>
                                                      <br>
                                                      <div
                                                        style="word-wrap:break-word">
                                                        <div><br>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <blockquote
                                                          type="cite">
                                                          <div>On Sep
                                                          20, 2015, at
                                                          12:40 PM, Paul
                                                          Hargrove &lt;<a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated"
                                                          href="mailto:phhargrove@lbl.gov"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:phhargrove@lbl.gov">phhargrove@lbl.gov</a></a>&gt;


                                                          wrote:</div>
                                                          <br>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div dir="ltr">Yes,

                                                          it is
                                                          definitely at
                                                          10.
                                                          <div>Another
                                                          attempt is
                                                          attached.</div>
                                                          <div>-Paul</div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div
                                                          class="gmail_extra"><br>
                                                          <div
                                                          class="gmail_quote">On


                                                          Sun, Sep 20,
                                                          2015 at 8:19
                                                          AM, Ralph
                                                          Castain <span
                                                          dir="ltr">&lt;<a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated"
                                                          href="mailto:rhc@open-mpi.org"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:rhc@open-mpi.org">rhc@open-mpi.org</a></a>&gt;</span>
                                                          wrote:<br>
                                                          <blockquote
                                                          class="gmail_quote"
                                                          style="margin:0

                                                          0 0
                                                          .8ex;border-left:1px
                                                          #ccc
                                                          solid;padding-left:1ex">
                                                          <div
                                                          style="word-wrap:break-word">Paul


                                                          - can you
                                                          please confirm
                                                          that you gave
                                                          mpirun a level
                                                          of 10 for the
                                                          pmix_base_verbose


                                                          param? This
                                                          output isn’t
                                                          what I would
                                                          have expected
                                                          from that
                                                          level - it
                                                          looks more
                                                          like the
                                                          verbosity was
                                                          set to 5, and
                                                          so the error
                                                          number isn’t
                                                          printed.
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div>Thanks</div>
                                                          <div>Ralph</div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <blockquote
                                                          type="cite">
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div>On Sep
                                                          20, 2015, at
                                                          3:42 AM,
                                                          Gilles
                                                          Gouaillardet
                                                          &lt;<a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated"
                                                          href="mailto:gilles.gouaillardet@gmail.com"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:gilles.gouaillardet@gmail.com">gilles.gouaillardet@gmail.com</a></a>&gt;


                                                          wrote:</div>
                                                          <br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div><span
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px;float:none;display:inline!important">Paul,</span>
                                                          <div
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px"><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px">I
                                                          do not
                                                          remember it
                                                          like that ...</div>
                                                          <div
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px"><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px">at


                                                          that time, the
                                                          issue in ompi
                                                          was that the
                                                          global errno
                                                          was uses
                                                          instead of the
                                                          per thread
                                                          errno.</div>
                                                          <div
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px">though


                                                          the man pages
                                                          tells -mt
                                                          should be used
                                                          fir
                                                          multithreaded
                                                          apps, you
                                                          tried
                                                          -D_REENTRANT
                                                          on all your
                                                          platforms, and
                                                          it was enough
                                                          to get the
                                                          expected
                                                          result.</div>
                                                          <div
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px"><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px">I
                                                          just wanted to
                                                          check pmix1xx
                                                          (sub)configure
                                                          did correctly
                                                          pass the
                                                          -D_REENTRANT
                                                          flag, and it
                                                          does. so this
                                                          is very likely
                                                          a new and
                                                          unrelated
                                                          error</div>
                                                          <div
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px"><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px">Cheers,</div>
                                                          <div
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px"><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px">Gilles</div>
                                                          <div
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px"><br>
                                                          On Sunday,
                                                          September 20,
                                                          2015, Paul
                                                          Hargrove &lt;<a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated"
                                                          href="mailto:phhargrove@lbl.gov"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:phhargrove@lbl.gov">phhargrove@lbl.gov</a></a>&gt;


                                                          wrote:<br>
                                                          <blockquote
                                                          class="gmail_quote"
                                                          style="margin:0px

                                                          0px 0px
0.8ex;border-left-width:1px;border-left-color:rgb(204,204,204);border-left-style:solid;padding-left:1ex">
                                                          <div dir="ltr">Gilles,


                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div>Yes every
                                                          $CC invocation
                                                          in opal/mca/pmix/pmix1xx


                                                          includes
                                                          "-D_REENTRANT".</div>
                                                          <div>However,
                                                          they don't
                                                          include "-mt".</div>
                                                          <div>I believe
                                                          we concluded
                                                          (when we had
                                                          problems
                                                          previously)
                                                          that "-mt" was
                                                          the proper
                                                          flag (at
                                                          compile and
                                                          link) for
                                                          multi-threaded
                                                          with the
                                                          Studio
                                                          compilers.</div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div>-Paul</div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div
                                                          class="gmail_extra"><br>
                                                          <div
                                                          class="gmail_quote">On


                                                          Sat, Sep 19,
                                                          2015 at 11:29
                                                          PM, Gilles
                                                          Gouaillardet<span> </span><span
                                                          dir="ltr">&lt;<a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated"
                                                          href="mailto:gilles.gouaillardet@gmail.com"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:gilles.gouaillardet@gmail.com">gilles.gouaillardet@gmail.com</a></a>&gt;</span><span> </span>wrote:<br>
                                                          <blockquote
                                                          class="gmail_quote"
                                                          style="margin:0px

                                                          0px 0px
0.8ex;border-left-width:1px;border-left-color:rgb(204,204,204);border-left-style:solid;padding-left:1ex">Paul,


                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div>Can you
                                                          please double
                                                          check pmix1xx
                                                          is compiled
                                                          with
                                                          -D_REENTRANT ?</div>
                                                          <div>We ran
                                                          into similar
                                                          issues in the
                                                          past, and they
                                                          only occurred
                                                          with Solaris </div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div>Cheers,</div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div>Gilles
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          <br>
                                                          On Sunday,
                                                          September 20,
                                                          2015, Paul
                                                          Hargrove &lt;<a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated"
                                                          href="mailto:phhargrove@lbl.gov"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:phhargrove@lbl.gov">phhargrove@lbl.gov</a></a>&gt;

                                                          wrote:<br>
                                                          <blockquote
                                                          class="gmail_quote"
                                                          style="margin:0px

                                                          0px 0px
0.8ex;border-left-width:1px;border-left-color:rgb(204,204,204);border-left-style:solid;padding-left:1ex">
                                                          <div dir="ltr">Ralph,


                                                          <div>The
                                                          output from
                                                          the requested
                                                          run is
                                                          attached.</div>
                                                          <div>-Paul</div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div
                                                          class="gmail_extra"><br>
                                                          <div
                                                          class="gmail_quote">On


                                                          Sat, Sep 19,
                                                          2015 at 9:46
                                                          PM, Ralph
                                                          Castain<span> </span><span
                                                          dir="ltr">&lt;<a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated"
                                                          href="mailto:rhc@open-mpi.org"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:rhc@open-mpi.org">rhc@open-mpi.org</a></a>&gt;</span><span> </span>wrote:<br>
                                                          <blockquote
                                                          class="gmail_quote"
                                                          style="margin:0px

                                                          0px 0px
0.8ex;border-left-width:1px;border-left-color:rgb(204,204,204);border-left-style:solid;padding-left:1ex">
                                                          <div
                                                          style="word-wrap:break-word">Ah,


                                                          okay - that
                                                          makes more
                                                          sense. I’ll
                                                          have to let
                                                          Brice see if
                                                          he can figure
                                                          out how to
                                                          silence the
                                                          hwloc error
                                                          message as I
                                                          can’t find
                                                          where it came
                                                          from. The
                                                          other errors
                                                          are real and
                                                          are the reason
                                                          why the job
                                                          was
                                                          terminated.
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div>The
                                                          problem is
                                                          that we are
                                                          trying to
                                                          establish a
                                                          communication
                                                          between the
                                                          app and the
                                                          daemon via
                                                          unix domain
                                                          socket, and we
                                                          failed to do
                                                          so. The error
                                                          tells me that
                                                          we were able
                                                          to create and
                                                          connect to the
                                                          socket, but
                                                          failed when
                                                          the daemon
                                                          tried to do a
                                                          blocking send
                                                          to the app.</div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div>Can you
                                                          rerun it with
                                                          -mca
                                                          pmix_base_verbose
                                                          10? It will
                                                          tell us the
                                                          value of the
                                                          error number
                                                          that was
                                                          returned</div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div>Thanks</div>
                                                          <div>Ralph</div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <blockquote
                                                          type="cite">
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div>On Sep
                                                          19, 2015, at
                                                          9:37 PM, Paul
                                                          Hargrove &lt;<a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated"
                                                          href="mailto:phhargrove@lbl.gov"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:phhargrove@lbl.gov">phhargrove@lbl.gov</a></a>&gt;

                                                          wrote:</div>
                                                          <br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div dir="ltr">Ralph,


                                                          <div><br>
                                                          <div>No it did
                                                          not run.</div>
                                                          <div>The
                                                          complete
                                                          output (which
                                                          I really
                                                          should have
                                                          included in
                                                          the first
                                                          place) is
                                                          below.</div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div>-Paul</div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">$
                                                          mpirun -mca
                                                          btl sm,self
                                                          -np 2
                                                          examples/ring_c'</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">Error


                                                          opening
                                                          /devices/pci@0,0:reg:
                                                          Permission
                                                          denied</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">[pcp-d-3:26054]


                                                          PMIX ERROR:
                                                          ERROR in file
                                                          /export/home/phargrov/OMPI/openmpi-master-solaris11-x64-ss12u3/openmpi-dev-2559-g567c9e3/opal/mca/pmix/pmix1xx/pmix/src/client/pmix_client.c


                                                          at line 181</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">[pcp-d-3:26053]


                                                          PMIX ERROR:
                                                          UNREACHABLE in
                                                          file
                                                          /export/home/phargrov/OMPI/openmpi-master-solaris11-x64-ss12u3/openmpi-dev-2559-g567c9e3/opal/mca/pmix/pmix1xx/pmix/src/server/pmix_server_listener.c


                                                          at line 463</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">--------------------------------------------------------------------------</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">It
                                                          looks like
                                                          MPI_INIT
                                                          failed for
                                                          some reason;
                                                          your parallel
                                                          process is</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">likely


                                                          to abort. 
                                                          There are many
                                                          reasons that a
                                                          parallel
                                                          process can</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">fail


                                                          during
                                                          MPI_INIT; some
                                                          of which are
                                                          due to
                                                          configuration
                                                          or environment</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">problems. 


                                                          This failure
                                                          appears to be
                                                          an internal
                                                          failure;
                                                          here's some</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">additional


                                                          information
                                                          (which may
                                                          only be
                                                          relevant to an
                                                          Open MPI</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">developer):</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace"><br>
                                                          </font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace"> <span> </span>ompi_mpi_init:


                                                          ompi_rte_init
                                                          failed</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace"> <span> </span>--&gt;


                                                          Returned
                                                          "(null)" (-43)
                                                          instead of
                                                          "Success" (0)</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">--------------------------------------------------------------------------</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">***
                                                          An error
                                                          occurred in
                                                          MPI_Init</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">***
                                                          on a NULL
                                                          communicator</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">***
                                                          MPI_ERRORS_ARE_FATAL


                                                          (processes in
                                                          this
                                                          communicator
                                                          will now
                                                          abort,</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">***
                                                             and
                                                          potentially
                                                          your MPI job)</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">[pcp-d-3:26054]


                                                          Local abort
                                                          before
                                                          MPI_INIT
                                                          completed
                                                          completed
                                                          successfully,
                                                          but am not
                                                          able to
                                                          aggregate
                                                          error
                                                          messages, and
                                                          not able to
                                                          guarantee that
                                                          all other
                                                          processes were
                                                          killed!</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">-------------------------------------------------------</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">Primary


                                                          job
                                                           terminated
                                                          normally, but
                                                          1 process
                                                          returned</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">a
                                                          non-zero exit
                                                          code.. Per
                                                          user-direction,
                                                          the job has
                                                          been aborted.</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">-------------------------------------------------------</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">--------------------------------------------------------------------------</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">mpirun


                                                          detected that
                                                          one or more
                                                          processes
                                                          exited with
                                                          non-zero
                                                          status, thus
                                                          causing</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">the
                                                          job to be
                                                          terminated.
                                                          The first
                                                          process to do
                                                          so was:</font></div>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace"><br>
                                                          </font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace"> <span> </span>Process


                                                          name:
                                                          [[11371,1],0]</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace"> <span> </span>Exit


                                                          code:    1</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">--------------------------------------------------------------------------</font></div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div
                                                          class="gmail_extra"><br>
                                                          <div
                                                          class="gmail_quote">On


                                                          Sat, Sep 19,
                                                          2015 at 8:50
                                                          PM, Ralph
                                                          Castain<span> </span><span
                                                          dir="ltr">&lt;<a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated"
                                                          href="mailto:rhc@open-mpi.org"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:rhc@open-mpi.org">rhc@open-mpi.org</a></a>&gt;</span><span> </span>wrote:<br>
                                                          <blockquote
                                                          class="gmail_quote"
                                                          style="margin:0px

                                                          0px 0px
0.8ex;border-left-width:1px;border-left-color:rgb(204,204,204);border-left-style:solid;padding-left:1ex">
                                                          <div
                                                          style="word-wrap:break-word">Paul,


                                                          can you
                                                          clarify
                                                          something for
                                                          me? The error
                                                          in this case
                                                          indicates that
                                                          the client
                                                          wasn’t able to
                                                          reach the
                                                          daemon - this
                                                          should have
                                                          resulted in
                                                          termination of
                                                          the job. Did
                                                          the job
                                                          actually run?
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <blockquote
                                                          type="cite">
                                                          <div>On Sep
                                                          18, 2015, at
                                                          2:50 AM, Ralph
                                                          Castain &lt;<a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated"
                                                          href="mailto:rhc@open-mpi.org"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:rhc@open-mpi.org">rhc@open-mpi.org</a></a>&gt;

                                                          wrote:</div>
                                                          <br>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div dir="ltr">I'm


                                                          on travel
                                                          right now, but
                                                          it should be
                                                          an easy fix
                                                          when I return.
                                                          Sorry for the
                                                          annoyance
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div
                                                          class="gmail_extra"><br>
                                                          <div
                                                          class="gmail_quote">On


                                                          Thu, Sep 17,
                                                          2015 at 11:13
                                                          PM, Paul
                                                          Hargrove<span> </span><span
                                                          dir="ltr">&lt;<a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated"
                                                          href="mailto:phhargrove@lbl.gov"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:phhargrove@lbl.gov">phhargrove@lbl.gov</a></a>&gt;</span><span> </span>wrote:<br>
                                                          <blockquote
                                                          class="gmail_quote"
                                                          style="margin:0px

                                                          0px 0px
0.8ex;border-left-width:1px;border-left-color:rgb(204,204,204);border-left-style:solid;padding-left:1ex">
                                                          <div dir="ltr">Any


                                                          suggestion how
                                                          I (as a
                                                          non-root user)
                                                          can avoid
                                                          seeing this
                                                          hwloc error
                                                          message on
                                                          every run?
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div>-Paul</div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div
                                                          class="gmail_extra"><br>
                                                          <div
                                                          class="gmail_quote">
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div>On Thu,
                                                          Sep 17, 2015
                                                          at 11:00 PM,
                                                          Gilles
                                                          Gouaillardet<span> </span><span
                                                          dir="ltr">&lt;<a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated"
                                                          href="mailto:gilles@rist.or.jp"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:gilles@rist.or.jp">gilles@rist.or.jp</a></a>&gt;</span><span> </span>wrote:<br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <blockquote
                                                          class="gmail_quote"
                                                          style="margin:0px

                                                          0px 0px
0.8ex;border-left-width:1px;border-left-color:rgb(204,204,204);border-left-style:solid;padding-left:1ex">
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div
                                                          bgcolor="#FFFFFF"
                                                          text="#000000">Paul,<br>
                                                          <br>
                                                          IIRC, the
                                                          "Permission
                                                          denied" is
                                                          coming from
                                                          hwloc that
                                                          cannot collect
                                                          all the info
                                                          it would like.<br>
                                                          <br>
                                                          Cheers,<br>
                                                          <br>
                                                          Gilles<span> </span><br>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          <div>On
                                                          9/18/2015 2:34
                                                          PM, Paul
                                                          Hargrove
                                                          wrote:<br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <blockquote
                                                          type="cite">
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div dir="ltr">Tried


                                                          tonight's
                                                          master tarball
                                                          on Solaris
                                                          11.2 on x86-64
                                                          with the
                                                          Studio
                                                          Compilers
                                                           (default
                                                          ILP32 output)
                                                          and saw the
                                                          following
                                                          result
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">$
                                                          mpirun -mca
                                                          btl sm,self
                                                          -np 2
                                                          examples/ring_c'</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">Error


                                                          opening
                                                          /devices/pci@0,0:reg:
                                                          Permission
                                                          denied</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">[pcp-d-4:00492]


                                                          PMIX ERROR:
                                                          ERROR in file
                                                          /export/home/phargrov/OMPI/openmpi-master-solaris11-x86-ss12u3/openmpi-dev-2559-g567c9e3/opal/mca/pmix/pmix1xx/pmix/src/client/pmix_client.c


                                                          at line 181</font></div>
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="monospace,
                                                          monospace">[pcp-d-4:00491]


                                                          PMIX ERROR:
                                                          UNREACHABLE in
                                                          file
                                                          /export/home/phargrov/OMPI/openmpi-master-solaris11-x86-ss12u3/openmpi-dev-2559-g567c9e3/opal/mca/pmix/pmix1xx/pmix/src/server/pmix_server_listener.c


                                                          at line 463</font></div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div>I don't
                                                          know if the
                                                          Permission
                                                          denied error
                                                          is related to
                                                          the subsequent
                                                          PMIX errors,
                                                          but any
                                                          message that
                                                          says
                                                          "UNREACHABLE"
                                                          is clearly
                                                          worth
                                                          reporting.</div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <div>-Paul</div>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          --<span> </span><br>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div dir="ltr">
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="courier
                                                          new,
                                                          monospace">
                                                          <div>Paul H.
                                                          Hargrove      
                                                                       
                                                               <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov">PHHargrove@lbl.gov</a></a></div>
                                                          <div>Computer
                                                          Languages
                                                          &amp; Systems
                                                          Software
                                                          (CLaSS) Group</div>
                                                          <div>Computer
                                                          Science
                                                          Department    
                                                                    Tel:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" href="tel:%2B1-510-495-2352" value="+15104952352"
target="_blank">+1-510-495-2352</a></div>
                                                          <div>Lawrence
                                                          Berkeley
                                                          National
                                                          Laboratory    
                                                          Fax:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" href="tel:%2B1-510-486-6900" value="+15104866900"
target="_blank">+1-510-486-6900</a></div>
                                                          </font></div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <br>
                                                          <fieldset></fieldset>
                                                          <br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <pre>_______________________________________________
devel mailing list
<a moz-do-not-send="true">devel@open-mpi.org</a>
Subscription: <a moz-do-not-send="true" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel" target="_blank">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a>
Link to this post: <a moz-do-not-send="true" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18074.php" target="_blank">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18074.php</a></pre>
                                                          </blockquote>
                                                          <br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <br>
_______________________________________________<br>
                                                          devel mailing
                                                          list<br>
                                                          <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a></a><br>
                                                          Subscription:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a></a><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          Link to this
                                                          post:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18075.php"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18075.php">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18075.php</a></a><br>
                                                          </blockquote>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <span><br>
                                                          <br
                                                          clear="all">
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          --<span> </span><br>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div dir="ltr">
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="courier
                                                          new,
                                                          monospace">
                                                          <div>Paul H.
                                                          Hargrove      
                                                                       
                                                               <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov">PHHargrove@lbl.gov</a></a></div>
                                                          <div>Computer
                                                          Languages
                                                          &amp; Systems
                                                          Software
                                                          (CLaSS) Group</div>
                                                          <div>Computer
                                                          Science
                                                          Department    
                                                                    Tel:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" href="tel:%2B1-510-495-2352" value="+15104952352"
target="_blank">+1-510-495-2352</a></div>
                                                          <div>Lawrence
                                                          Berkeley
                                                          National
                                                          Laboratory    
                                                          Fax:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" href="tel:%2B1-510-486-6900" value="+15104866900"
target="_blank">+1-510-486-6900</a></div>
                                                          </font></div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </span></div>
                                                          <br>
_______________________________________________<br>
                                                          devel mailing
                                                          list<br>
                                                          <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a></a><br>
                                                          Subscription:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a></a><br>
                                                          Link to this
                                                          post:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18076.php"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18076.php">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18076.php</a></a><br>
                                                          </blockquote>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </blockquote>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <br>
_______________________________________________<br>
                                                          devel mailing
                                                          list<br>
                                                          <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a></a><br>
                                                          Subscription:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a></a><br>
                                                          Link to this
                                                          post:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18078.php"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18078.php">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18078.php</a></a><br>
                                                          </blockquote>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <br>
                                                          <br
                                                          clear="all">
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          --<span> </span><br>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div dir="ltr">
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="courier
                                                          new,
                                                          monospace">
                                                          <div>Paul H.
                                                          Hargrove      
                                                                       
                                                               <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov">PHHargrove@lbl.gov</a></a></div>
                                                          <div>Computer
                                                          Languages
                                                          &amp; Systems
                                                          Software
                                                          (CLaSS) Group</div>
                                                          <div>Computer
                                                          Science
                                                          Department    
                                                                    Tel:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" href="tel:%2B1-510-495-2352" value="+15104952352"
target="_blank">+1-510-495-2352</a></div>
                                                          <div>Lawrence
                                                          Berkeley
                                                          National
                                                          Laboratory    
                                                          Fax:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" href="tel:%2B1-510-486-6900" value="+15104866900"
target="_blank">+1-510-486-6900</a></div>
                                                          </font></div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
_______________________________________________<br>
                                                          devel mailing
                                                          list<br>
                                                          <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a></a><br>
                                                          Subscription:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a></a><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          Link to this
                                                          post:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18080.php"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18080.php">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18080.php</a></a></div>
                                                          </blockquote>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <br>
_______________________________________________<br>
                                                          devel mailing
                                                          list<br>
                                                          <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a></a><br>
                                                          Subscription:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a></a><br>
                                                          Link to this
                                                          post:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18081.php"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18081.php">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18081.php</a></a><br>
                                                          </blockquote>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <br>
                                                          <br
                                                          clear="all">
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          --<span> </span><br>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div dir="ltr">
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="courier
                                                          new,
                                                          monospace">
                                                          <div>Paul H.
                                                          Hargrove      
                                                                       
                                                               <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov">PHHargrove@lbl.gov</a></a></div>
                                                          <div>Computer
                                                          Languages
                                                          &amp; Systems
                                                          Software
                                                          (CLaSS) Group</div>
                                                          <div>Computer
                                                          Science
                                                          Department    
                                                                    Tel:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" href="tel:%2B1-510-495-2352" value="+15104952352"
target="_blank">+1-510-495-2352</a></div>
                                                          <div>Lawrence
                                                          Berkeley
                                                          National
                                                          Laboratory    
                                                          Fax:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" href="tel:%2B1-510-486-6900" value="+15104866900"
target="_blank">+1-510-486-6900</a></div>
                                                          </font></div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </blockquote>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <br>
_______________________________________________<br>
                                                          devel mailing
                                                          list<br>
                                                          <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a></a><br>
                                                          Subscription:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a></a><br>
                                                          Link to this
                                                          post:<span> </span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18083.php"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18083.php">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18083.php</a></a><br>
                                                          </blockquote>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <br>
                                                          <br
                                                          clear="all">
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          --<span> </span><br>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div dir="ltr">
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="courier
                                                          new,
                                                          monospace">
                                                          <div>Paul H.
                                                          Hargrove      
                                                                       
                                                               <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov">PHHargrove@lbl.gov</a></a></div>
                                                          <div>Computer
                                                          Languages
                                                          &amp; Systems
                                                          Software
                                                          (CLaSS) Group</div>
                                                          <div>Computer
                                                          Science
                                                          Department    
                                                                    Tel:
                                                          <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
href="tel:%2B1-510-495-2352" value="+15104952352" target="_blank">+1-510-495-2352</a></div>
                                                          <div>Lawrence
                                                          Berkeley
                                                          National
                                                          Laboratory    
                                                          Fax: <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
href="tel:%2B1-510-486-6900" value="+15104866900" target="_blank">+1-510-486-6900</a></div>
                                                          </font></div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </blockquote>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <span
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px;float:none;display:inline!important">_______________________________________________</span><br
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px">
                                                          <span
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px;float:none;display:inline!important">devel


                                                          mailing list</span><br
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px">
                                                          <span
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px;float:none;display:inline!important"><a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated"
                                                          href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a></a></span><br
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px">
                                                          <span
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px;float:none;display:inline!important">Subscription:


                                                          <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a></a></span><br
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px">
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <span
style="font-family:Helvetica;font-size:12px;font-style:normal;font-variant:normal;font-weight:normal;letter-spacing:normal;line-height:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px;float:none;display:inline!important">Link


                                                          to this post:<span> </span></span><a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18085.php"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18085.php">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18085.php</a></a></div>
                                                          </blockquote>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <br>
_______________________________________________<br>
                                                          devel mailing
                                                          list<br>
                                                          <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a></a><br>
                                                          Subscription:
                                                          <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a></a><br>
                                                          Link to this
                                                          post: <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18086.php"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18086.php">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18086.php</a></a><br>
                                                          </blockquote>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <br>
                                                          <br
                                                          clear="all">
                                                          <div><br>
                                                          </div>
                                                          -- <br>
                                                          <div>
                                                          <div dir="ltr">
                                                          <div><font
                                                          face="courier
                                                          new,
                                                          monospace">
                                                          <div>Paul H.
                                                          Hargrove      
                                                                       
                                                               <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov">PHHargrove@lbl.gov</a></a></div>
                                                          <div>Computer
                                                          Languages
                                                          &amp; Systems
                                                          Software
                                                          (CLaSS) Group</div>
                                                          <div>Computer
                                                          Science
                                                          Department    
                                                                    Tel:
                                                          <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
href="tel:%2B1-510-495-2352" value="+15104952352" target="_blank">+1-510-495-2352</a></div>
                                                          <div>Lawrence
                                                          Berkeley
                                                          National
                                                          Laboratory    
                                                          Fax: <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
href="tel:%2B1-510-486-6900" value="+15104866900" target="_blank">+1-510-486-6900</a></div>
                                                          </font></div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <span>&lt;typescript&gt;</span>_______________________________________________<br>
                                                          devel mailing
                                                          list<br>
                                                          <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a></a><br>
                                                          Subscription:
                                                          <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a></a><br>
                                                          Link to this
                                                          post: <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18087.php"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18087.php">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18087.php</a></a></div>
                                                          </blockquote>
                                                          </div>
                                                          <br>
                                                        </div>
                                                      </div>
                                                      <br>
_______________________________________________<br>
                                                      devel mailing list<br>
                                                      <a
                                                        moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a></a><br>
                                                      Subscription: <a
moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                        href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a></a><br>
                                                      Link to this post:
                                                      <a
                                                        moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                        href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18088.php"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18088.php">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18088.php</a></a><br>
                                                    </blockquote>
                                                  </div>
                                                  <br>
                                                  <br clear="all">
                                                  <div><br>
                                                  </div>
                                                  -- <br>
                                                  <div>
                                                    <div dir="ltr">
                                                      <div><font
                                                          face="courier
                                                          new,
                                                          monospace">
                                                          <div>Paul H.
                                                          Hargrove      
                                                                       
                                                               <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov">PHHargrove@lbl.gov</a></a></div>
                                                          <div>Computer
                                                          Languages
                                                          &amp; Systems
                                                          Software
                                                          (CLaSS) Group</div>
                                                          <div>Computer
                                                          Science
                                                          Department    
                                                                    Tel:
                                                          <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
href="tel:%2B1-510-495-2352" value="+15104952352" target="_blank">+1-510-495-2352</a></div>
                                                          <div>Lawrence
                                                          Berkeley
                                                          National
                                                          Laboratory    
                                                          Fax: <a
                                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
href="tel:%2B1-510-486-6900" value="+15104866900" target="_blank">+1-510-486-6900</a></div>
                                                        </font></div>
                                                    </div>
                                                  </div>
                                                </div>
                                                <span>&lt;typescript&gt;</span>_______________________________________________<br>
                                                devel mailing list<br>
                                                <a
                                                  moz-do-not-send="true"
href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org" target="_blank"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a></a><br>
                                                Subscription: <a
                                                  moz-do-not-send="true"
class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                                  href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a></a><br>
                                              </div>
                                            </div>
                                            Link to this post: <a
                                              moz-do-not-send="true"
                                              class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18089.php"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18089.php">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18089.php</a></a></div>
                                        </blockquote>
                                      </div>
                                      <br>
                                    </div>
                                  </div>
                                  <br>
_______________________________________________<br>
                                  devel mailing list<br>
                                  <a moz-do-not-send="true"
                                    href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org"
                                    target="_blank">devel@open-mpi.org</a><br>
                                  Subscription: <a
                                    moz-do-not-send="true"
                                    href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel"
                                    rel="noreferrer" target="_blank"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a></a><br>
                                  Link to this post: <a
                                    moz-do-not-send="true"
                                    class="moz-txt-link-freetext"
                                    href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18092.php"><a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18092.php">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18092.php</a></a><br>
                                </blockquote>
                              </div>
                              <br>
                              <br clear="all">
                              <div><br>
                              </div>
                              -- <br>
                              <div>
                                <div dir="ltr">
                                  <div><font face="courier new,
                                      monospace">
                                      <div>Paul H. Hargrove            
                                                     <a
                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
                                          class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated"
href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov">PHHargrove@lbl.gov</a></a></div>
                                      <div>Computer Languages &amp;
                                        Systems Software (CLaSS) Group</div>
                                      <div>Computer Science Department  
                                                    Tel: <a
                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
                                          href="tel:%2B1-510-495-2352"
                                          value="+15104952352"
                                          target="_blank">+1-510-495-2352</a></div>
                                      <div>Lawrence Berkeley National
                                        Laboratory     Fax: <a
                                          moz-do-not-send="true"
                                          href="tel:%2B1-510-486-6900"
                                          value="+15104866900"
                                          target="_blank">+1-510-486-6900</a></div>
                                    </font></div>
                                </div>
                              </div>
                            </div>
                            <br>
                            <fieldset></fieldset>
                            <br>
                            <pre>_______________________________________________
devel mailing list
<a moz-do-not-send="true" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org" target="_blank">devel@open-mpi.org</a>
Subscription: <a moz-do-not-send="true" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel" target="_blank">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a>
Link to this post: <a moz-do-not-send="true" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18093.php" target="_blank">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18093.php</a></pre>
                          </blockquote>
                          <br>
                        </div>
                        <span>&lt;pmix_client.diff&gt;</span>_______________________________________________<br>
                        devel mailing list<br>
                        <a moz-do-not-send="true"
                          href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org"
                          target="_blank">devel@open-mpi.org</a><br>
                        Subscription: <a moz-do-not-send="true"
                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel"
                          target="_blank">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a><br>
                        Link to this post: <a moz-do-not-send="true"
                          href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18101.php"
                          target="_blank">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18101.php</a></div>
                    </blockquote>
                  </div>
                  <br>
                </div>
              </div>
              <br>
              _______________________________________________<br>
              devel mailing list<br>
              <a moz-do-not-send="true" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a><br>
              Subscription: <a moz-do-not-send="true"
                href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel"
                rel="noreferrer" target="_blank">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a><br>
              Link to this post: <a moz-do-not-send="true"
                href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18102.php"
                rel="noreferrer" target="_blank">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18102.php</a><br>
            </blockquote>
          </div>
          <br>
          <br clear="all">
          <div><br>
          </div>
          -- <br>
          <div class="gmail_signature">
            <div dir="ltr">
              <div><font face="courier new, monospace">
                  <div>Paul H. Hargrove                          <a
                      moz-do-not-send="true"
                      class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated"
                      href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov"><a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:PHHargrove@lbl.gov">PHHargrove@lbl.gov</a></a></div>
                  <div>Computer Languages &amp; Systems Software (CLaSS)
                    Group</div>
                  <div>Computer Science Department               Tel:
                    +1-510-495-2352</div>
                  <div>Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory     Fax:
                    +1-510-486-6900</div>
                </font></div>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <br>
        <fieldset class="mimeAttachmentHeader"></fieldset>
        <br>
        <pre wrap="">_______________________________________________
devel mailing list
<a moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a>
Subscription: <a moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a>
Link to this post: <a moz-do-not-send="true" class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18109.php">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18109.php</a></pre>
      </blockquote>
      <br>
      <br>
      <fieldset class="mimeAttachmentHeader"></fieldset>
      <br>
      <pre wrap="">_______________________________________________
devel mailing list
<a class="moz-txt-link-abbreviated" href="mailto:devel@open-mpi.org">devel@open-mpi.org</a>
Subscription: <a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel">http://www.open-mpi.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/devel</a>
Link to this post: <a class="moz-txt-link-freetext" href="http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18110.php">http://www.open-mpi.org/community/lists/devel/2015/09/18110.php</a></pre>
    </blockquote>
    <br>
  